== Domain Language of Batch
To any experienced batch architect, the overall concepts of batch
processing used by JSR 352 should be familiar and comfortable. There are
"Jobs" and "Steps" and developer supplied processing units called
ItemReaders and ItemWriters. However, because of the JSR 352 operations,
callbacks, and idioms, there are opportunities for the following:

[loweralpha]
. significant improvement in adherence to a clear separation of
concerns
. clearly delineated architectural layers and services provided as
interfaces
. significantly enhanced extensibility

The diagram below is a simplified version of the batch reference
architecture that has been used for decades. It provides an overview of
the components that make up the domain language of batch processing.
This architecture framework is a blueprint that has been proven through
decades of implementations on the last several generations of platforms
(COBOL/Mainframe, C++/Unix, and now Java/anywhere). JCL and COBOL
developers are likely to be as comfortable with the concepts as C++, C#
and Java developers. JSR 352 specifies the layers, components and
technical services commonly found in robust, maintainable systems used
to address the creation of simple to complex batch applications.

image::images/image003.png[image]

The diagram above highlights the key concepts that make up the domain
language of batch. A Job has one to many steps, which has no more than
one ItemReader, ItemProcessor, and ItemWriter. A job needs to be
launched (JobOperator), and meta data about the currently running
process needs to be stored (JobRepository).

=== Job
A Job is an entity that encapsulates an entire batch process. A Job
will be wired together via a Job Specification Language. However, Job is
just the top of an overall hierarchy:

image::images/image005.png[http://static.springsource.org/spring-batch/trunk/reference/html-single/images/job-heirarchy.png]

With JSR 352, a Job is simply a container for Steps. It combines
multiple steps that belong logically together in a flow and allows for
configuration of properties global to all steps, such as restartability.
The job configuration contains:

1. The simple name of the job

2. Definition and ordering of Steps

3. Whether or not the job is restartable

==== JobInstance

A JobInstance refers to the concept of a logical job run. Let's consider
a batch job that should be run once at the end of the day, such as the
'EndOfDay' job from the diagram above. There is one 'EndOfDay' Job, but
each individual run of the Job must be tracked separately. In the case
of this job, there will be one logical JobInstance per day. For example,
there will be a January 1st run, and a January 2nd run. If the January
1st run fails the first time and is run again the next day, it is still
the January 1st run. Usually this corresponds with the data it is
processing as well, meaning the January 1st run processes data for
January 1st, etc. Therefore, each JobInstance can have multiple
executions (JobExecution is discussed in more detail below); one or many
JobInstances corresponding to a particular Job can be running at a given
time.

The definition of a JobInstance has absolutely no bearing on the data
that will be loaded. It is entirely up to the ItemReader implementation
used to determine how data will be loaded. For example, in the EndOfDay
scenario, there may be a column on the data that indicates the
'effective date' or 'schedule date' to which the data belongs. So, the
January 1st run would only load data from the 1st, and the January 2nd
run would only use data from the 2nd. Because this determination will
likely be a business decision, it is left up to the ItemReader to
decide. What using the same JobInstance will determine, however, is
whether or not the 'state' from previous executions will be available to
the new run. Using a new JobInstance will mean 'start from the
beginning' and using an existing instance will generally mean 'start
from where you left off'.

==== JobParameters
Job parameters can be specified each time a job is started or restarted.
Job parameters are keyword/value string pairs. The JobOperator start and
restart operations support the specification of job parameters. See
section 10.4 for further details on JobOperator.

==== JobExecution
A JobExecution refers to the technical concept of a single attempt to
run a Job. Each time a job is started or restarted, a new JobExecution
is created, belonging to the same JobInstance.

=== Step
A Step is a domain object that encapsulates an independent, sequential
phase of a batch job. Therefore, every Job is composed entirely of one
or more steps. A Step contains all of the information necessary to
define and control the actual batch processing. This is a necessarily
vague description because the contents of any given Step are at the
discretion of the developer writing it. A Step can be as simple or
complex as the developer desires. A simple Step might load data from a
file into the database, requiring little or no code, depending upon the
implementations used. A more complex Step may have complicated business
rules that are applied as part of the processing. As with Job, a Step
has an individual StepExecution that corresponds with a unique
JobExecution:

image::images/image007.png[http://static.springsource.org/spring-batch/trunk/reference/html-single/images/jobHeirarchyWithSteps.png]

==== StepExecution
A StepExecution represents a single attempt to execute a Step. A new
StepExecution will be created each time a Step is run, similar to
JobExecution. However, if a step fails to execute because the step
before it fails, there will be no execution persisted for it. A
StepExecution will only be created when its Step is actually started.

=== JobOperator
JobOperator provides an interface to manage all aspects of job
processing, including operational commands, such as start, restart, and
stop, as well as job repository related commands, such as retrieval of
job and step executions. See section 10.4 for more details about
JobOperator.

=== Job Repository
A job repository holds information about jobs currently running and
jobs that have run in the past. The JobOperator interface provides
access to this repository. The repository contains job instances, job
executions, and step executions. For further information on this
content, see sections 10.9.8, 10.9.9, 10.9.10, respectively.

Note the implementation of the job repository is outside the scope of
this specification.

=== ItemReader

ItemReader is an abstraction that represents the retrieval of input for
a Step, one item at a time. An ItemReader provides an indicator when it
has exhausted the items it can supply. See section 9.1.1.1 for more
details about ItemReaders.

=== ItemWriter

ItemWriter is an abstraction that represents the output of a Step, one
batch or chunk of items at a time. Generally, an item writer has no
knowledge of the input it will receive next, only the item that was
passed in its current invocation. See section 9.1.1.3 for more details
about ItemWriters.

=== ItemProcessor

ItemProcessor is an abstraction that represents the business processing
of an item. While the ItemReader reads one item, and the ItemWriter
writes them, the ItemProcessor provides access to transform or apply
other business processing. See section 9.1.1.2 for more details about
ItemProcessors.

=== Chunk-oriented Processing

JSR 352 specifies a 'Chunk Oriented' processing style as its primary
pattern. Chunk oriented processing refers to reading the data one item
at a time, and creating 'chunks' that will be written out, within a
transaction boundary. One item is read in from an ItemReader, handed to
an ItemProcessor, and aggregated. Once the number of items read equals
the commit interval, the entire chunk is written out via the ItemWriter,
and then the transaction is committed.

image::images/image009.png[http://static.springsource.org/spring-batch/trunk/reference/html-single/images/chunk-oriented-processing.png]

=== Batch Checkpoints

For data intensive batch applications - particularly those that may run
for long periods of time - checkpoint/restart is a common design
requirement. Checkpoints allow a step execution to periodically bookmark
its current progress to enable restart from the last point of
consistency, following a planned or unplanned interruption.

Checkpoints work naturally with chunk-oriented processing. The end of
processing for each chunk is a natural point for taking a checkpoint.

JSR 352 specifies runtime support for checkpoint/restart in a generic
way that can be exploited by any chunk-oriented batch step that has this
requirement.

Since progress during a step execution is really a function of the
current position of the input/output data, natural placement of function
suggests the knowledge for saving/restoring current position is a
reader/writer responsibility.

Since managing step execution is a runtime responsibility, the batch
runtime must necessarily understand step execution lifecycle, including
initial start, execution end states, and restart.

Since checkpoint frequency has a direct effect on lock hold times, for
lockable resources, tuning checkpoint interval size can have a direct
bearing on overall system throughput.
